From now on, when you think about
a sector, one of the analysis variables
you should incorporate is
concentration.
Concentration depends on the
number of competitors there are,
how large those competitors
are and how the cake is distributed,
how the market share or market
share is distributed.
And according to that, we have
very concentrated sectors, in which
a few competitors are very large
and a large part of the cake is distributed,
or sectors that are at the other
end, which are very little concentrated
sectors, what we call atomized
sectors, in which there
are many, very small and
none has a very preponderant
weight over the total.
As we see, this is not white
or black, but it is a scale.
At the extreme of concentration, the
greatest concentration, is a monopoly.
There is only one company.
There is no competition.
More concentration, less
competition.
Monopoly, in the case of Microsoft,
in its operating system for computers,
Monopoly has huge advantages
for the company, which is the
monopolistic, and
is that it has almost freedom
to fix prices, does not have
to worry about others,
etc.
It is common sense, it is easy to understand.
This is the ideal situation.
There are some things that are oligopoly.
Without becoming a monopoly, there
are many sectors in which there
are a few players that share
almost the entire market.
The concentration is very concentrated.
Use this type of reasoning.
Very concentrated sectors,
such as search engines, where
Google, Bing and Yahoo share
almost the entire market.
Or the cola drinks, in which we
have Coca-Cola and Pepsi.
Or the operating systems for smartphones,
with iOS and Android, which
almost have the whole too.
Without being a monopoly, we have
seen cases that are oligopolies.
There is a lot of concentration.
These companies, which are
so big, so powerful, are very benefited
from these circumstances.
There is little competition.
They can even make tacit non-aggression
pacts.
They are the ones who lead the change
in the industry, the ones who fix
prices, etc.
And at the other extreme, there are the
cases of greater atomization.
Or even less concentration.
They are industries in which there
are many competitors, very many,
and there is none that has a very
high market share.
A very atomized market, for
example, is the restaurant
sector in your city.
How many restaurants are there
in your city or country?
by Miles.
Does anyone have a 20% market
share?
No to.
There will be chains like the American,
like McDonald's, for example, that
have many restaurants.
But still, the weight on the
total is very small.
As we can see, there are no leaders.
There are companies that are bigger
than others, but there is none that
can impose their law.
They all compete.
In this case, they compete in
a different way.
Each has its space.
Let's think of American business
schools.
American business
schools, which are very
many, hundreds, all
share the whole cake.
But there is none that has a
30% of the students or sales.
It is an atomized market.
Let me give you another example, the
fashion industry.
If you wonder if the fashion industry
is more concentrated or more
atomized, you probably come to
mind the big groups like Inditex
or H&M or Primark.
And you think it's concentrated,
because of course, those groups have
a huge volume.
And it is true that they have a
lot of volume, but in relation to the total
market, they are residual.
I give you the data.
These three things I've told you
do not exceed 5% of the total market share.
But if you think it right, you think how
many stores and how many e-commerce
there are in the world millions
and millions and millions.
And above all that total market,
or think of your own city, or
especially that market, how much
do each of the large groups weigh?
It is very little.
We can say that this is
an atomized sector.
Another sector is atomized,
for example, because the sector is like
the provision of legal services or
lawyers, in which there are thousands
of lawyers' offices.
It's true that some are very
big, like Baker & McKenzie,
which is the second worldwide.
However, Baker & McKenzie, no matter
how second it is worldwide,
and no matter how many thousands
of employees, over the total volume
of legal services business worldwide,
because it is, let's say,
a drop in the ocean.
To conclude, let's see that
really the concentration and atomization
of a sector is variable
over time.
In many sectors, there
is a tendency to
concentration.
Let us see some example.
Food stores, the
food industry.
It was very, very, very atomized.
They were small shops in the
urban centers.
Small distributors
The distribution grew.
And not only was the large distribution
in supermarkets growing,
but also the larger groups
of supermarkets
were acquiring, merging
with the smaller ones.
The industry is increasingly
concentrating every day.
Think, from a sector that is made
up of thousands of small food stores,
to a few years later local supermarkets,
to the current trend that
are large groups that have been
acquiring all the local supermarkets,
because the sector
every day there are fewer
players and every day
is more concentrated.
It has happened...
The trend to concentration we have
seen in the automotive sector,
for example.
This is the Volkswagen group, which
has been acquiring brands, brands,
manufacturers, since a Spanish
manufacturer, such as SEAT, for example.
As we can see, there are fewer
and fewer groups with more brands.
We see that the sector
has been concentrated.
What is the reason for this?
Economies of scale.
Large companies benefit
from economies of scale, which
is something we will
study later, which allows
them to save costs.